RSDK-6001 - Add Expose Paths project RPC methods (#2310)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/mobility/motion/_index.md

{{< alert title="Usage" color="tip" >}}

`MoveOnGlobe()` is non blocking, meaning the motion service will move the component to the destination GPS point after `MoveOnGlobe()` returns.

> Each successful `MoveOnGlobe()` call retuns a unique ExectionID which can be used to identify all plans generated durring the `MoveOnGlobe()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each successful `MoveOnGlobe()` call retuns a unique ExectionID which you can use to identify all plans generated durring the `MoveOnGlobe()`.
```

> Each successful `MoveOnGlobe()` call retuns a unique ExectionID which you can use to identify all plans generated durring the `MoveOnGlobe()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each successful `MoveOnGlobe()` call retuns a unique `ExecutionID` which you can use to identify all plans generated during the `MoveOnGlobe()`.
```

> The progress of the `MoveOnGlobe()` call can be monitored by querying `GetPlan()` and `ListPlanStatuses()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can monitor the progress of the `MoveOnGlobe()` call by querying `GetPlan()` and `ListPlanStatuses()`.
```

**Returns:**

- [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/motion#Service).

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
motionService, err := motion.FromRobot(robot, "builtin")
myBaseResourceName := base.Named("myBase")
ctx := context.Background()

// Assuming a move_on_globe started started the execution
// myMvmntSensorResourceName := movement_sensor.Named("my_movement_sensor")
// myDestination := geo.NewPoint(0, 0)
// executionID, err := motionService.MoveOnGlobe(ctx, motion.MoveOnGlobeReq{
//     ComponentName:      myBaseResourceName,
//     Destination:        myDestination,
//     MovementSensorName: myMvmntSensorResourceName,
// })

// Stop the base component which was instructed to move by `MoveOnGlobe()`
err := motionService.StopPlan(context.Background(), motion.StopPlanReq{
    ComponentName: s.req.ComponentName,
})
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### GetPlan

Returns the plan history of the most recent [`MoveOnGlobe`](/mobility/motion/#moveonglobe) call to move a [base](/components/base/) component.

> Returns a result if the last execution (call to `MoveOnGlobe`) is still executing OR changed state within the last 24 hours AND the robot has not reinitialized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a result if both of the following conditions are met:

- the last execution (call to `MoveOnGlobe`) is still executing **or** changed state within the last 24 hours
- the robot has not reinitialized
```

> Plans are never mutated.

Reviewer: That is what you're saying right? Let's say that in simpler terms.
```suggestion
Plans never change.
```

  - `extra` [(map\[string\]interface{})](https://go.dev/blog/maps): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- [([]PlanWithStatus)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/motion@v0.15.1#PlanWithStatus): PlanWithStatus contains a plan, its current status, and all state changes that came prior sorted by ascending timestamp.
- [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/motion#Service).

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
motionService, err := motion.FromRobot(robot, "builtin")
# Get the plan(s) of the base component's most recent execution i.e. `MoveOnGlobe()` call.
ctx := context.Background()
planHistory, err := motionService.PlanHistory(ctx, motion.PlanHistoryReq{
    ComponentName: s.req.ComponentName,
})
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### ListPlanStatuses

> Returns the plan statuses created by [`MoveOnGlobe`](/mobility/motion/#moveonglobe) calls that are executing OR are part of an execution which changed it state within the a 24HR TTL OR until the robot reinitializes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the plan statuses created by [`MoveOnGlobe`](/mobility/motion/#moveonglobe) calls that meet at least one of the following conditions:

 - currently in execution
 - part of an execution which changed its state within the last 24 hours while the machine hasn't reinitialized (for example, due to a restart).
```

Author: This would be more accurate:
```
Returns the statuses of plans created by [`MoveOnGlobe`](/mobility/motion/#moveonglobe) calls that met at least one of the following conditions since the motion service initialized:

- the plan's status is in progress
- the plan's status changed state within the last 24 hours
```

> All repeated fields are in time ascending order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All repeated fields are in chronological order.
```

  - `extra` [(map\[string\]interface{})](https://go.dev/blog/maps): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/motion#Service).

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
motionService, err := motion.FromRobot(robot, "builtin")
myBaseResourceName := base.Named("myBase")
ctx := context.Background()

// Assuming a move_on_globe started started the execution
// myMvmntSensorResourceName := movement_sensor.Named("my_movement_sensor")
// myDestination := geo.NewPoint(0, 0)
// executionID, err := motionService.MoveOnGlobe(ctx, motion.MoveOnGlobeReq{
//     ComponentName:      myBaseResourceName,
//     Destination:        myDestination,
//     MovementSensorName: myMvmntSensorResourceName,
// })

// Stop the base component which was instructed to move by `MoveOnGlobe()`
err := motionService.StopPlan(context.Background(), motion.StopPlanReq{
    ComponentName: s.req.ComponentName,
})
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### GetPlan

> Returns the plan history of the most recent [`MoveOnGlobe`](/mobility/motion/#moveonglobe) call to move a [base](/components/base/) component.

Author: ```suggestion
By default: returns the plan history of the most recent [`MoveOnGlobe`](/mobility/motion/#moveonglobe) call to move a [base](/components/base/) component.

The plan history for executions before the most recent can be requested by providing an ExecutionID in the request.
```

> Returns a result if both of the following conditions are met:
> 
> - the last execution (call to `MoveOnGlobe`) is still executing **or** changed state within the last 24 hours
> - the robot has not reinitialized

Author: ```suggestion
Returns a result if both of the following conditions are met:

- the execution (call to `MoveOnGlobe`) is still executing **or** changed state within the last 24 hours
- the robot has not reinitialized
```

  - `extra` [(map\[string\]interface{})](https://go.dev/blog/maps): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/motion#Service).

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
motionService, err := motion.FromRobot(robot, "builtin")
myBaseResourceName := base.Named("myBase")
ctx := context.Background()

// Assuming a move_on_globe started started the execution
// myMvmntSensorResourceName := movement_sensor.Named("my_movement_sensor")
// myDestination := geo.NewPoint(0, 0)
// executionID, err := motionService.MoveOnGlobe(ctx, motion.MoveOnGlobeReq{
//     ComponentName:      myBaseResourceName,
//     Destination:        myDestination,
//     MovementSensorName: myMvmntSensorResourceName,
// })

// Stop the base component which was instructed to move by `MoveOnGlobe()`
err := motionService.StopPlan(context.Background(), motion.StopPlanReq{
    ComponentName: s.req.ComponentName,
})
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### GetPlan

> By default: returns the plan history of the most recent [`MoveOnGlobe`](/mobility/motion/#moveonglobe) call to move a [base](/components/base/) component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, returns the plan history of the most recent [`MoveOnGlobe`](/mobility/motion/#moveonglobe) call to move a [base](/components/base/) component.
```

> The plan history for executions before the most recent can be requested by providing an ExecutionID in the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The plan history for executions before the most recent can be requested by providing an `ExecutionID` in the request.
```

Returns a result if both of the following conditions are met:

- the execution (call to `MoveOnGlobe`) is still executing **or** changed state within the last 24 hours
- the robot has not reinitialized

Plans never change.

Replans always create new plans.

> Replans share the ExecutionID of the previously executing plan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replans share the `ExecutionID` of the previously executing plan.
```

All repeated fields are in time ascending order.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `component_name` [(ResourceName)](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/common/v1/common_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.common.v1.common_pb2.ResourceName): The `ResourceName` of the base to stop.

> - `lastPlanOnly` [(Optional\[bool\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): If `true`, the response will only return the the last plan for the component / execution

Reviewer 2: Could you rephrase without the slash?

Author: how is that?

- `executionID` [(Optional\[str\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): If non empty, the response will return the plans of the provided execution & component. Useful for retrieving plans from executions before the current execution.
- `extra` [(Optional\[Dict\[str, Any\]\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
- `timeout` [(Optional\[float\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): An option to set how long to wait (in seconds) before calling a time-out and closing the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

> - [(GetPlanResponse)](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/services/motion/index.html#viam.services.motion.GetPlanResponse)

Reviewer 2: Missing description

Author: how is that?

ctx := context.Background()
planHistory, err := motionService.PlanHistory(ctx, motion.PlanHistoryReq{
    ComponentName: s.req.ComponentName,
})
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### ListPlanStatuses

Returns the statuses of plans created by [`MoveOnGlobe`](/mobility/motion/#moveonglobe) calls that meet at least one of the following conditions since the motion service initialized:

- the plan's status is in progress
- the plan's status changed state within the last 24 hours

All repeated fields are in chronological order.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `onlyActivePlans` [(Optional\[bool\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): If `true`, the response will only return plans which are executing.
- `extra` [(Optional\[Dict\[str, Any\]\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
- `timeout` [(Optional\[float\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): An option to set how long to wait (in seconds) before calling a time-out and closing the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

> - [(ListPlanStatusesResponse)](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/services/motion/index.html#viam.services.motion.ListPlanStatusesResponse)

Reviewer 2: Missing description

Reviewer 2: I meant that there is no `: ...` text describing this return like there is for the one below

Reviewer 2: Just a few words describing what the return type is

Reviewer 2: I was confused about these returns being wrappers, this looks good to me!

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/services/motion/index.html#viam.services.motion.MotionClient.list_plan_statuses).

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
motion = MotionClient.from_robot(robot=robot, name="builtin")
# List the plan statuses of the motion service within the TTL
resp = await motion.list_plan_statuses()
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `ctx` [(Context)](https://pkg.go.dev/context): A Context carries a deadline, a cancellation signal, and other values across API boundaries.
- `req` [ListPlanStatusesReq](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/motion@v0.15.1#ListPlanStatusesReq): A `ListPlanStatusesReq` which contains the following values:
  - `onlyActivePlans` [(bool)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#bool): If `true`, the response will only return plans which are executing.
  - `extra` [(map\[string\]interface{})](https://go.dev/blog/maps): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

> - [([]PlanStatusWithID)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/motion@v0.15.1#PlanStatusWithID): PlanStatusWithID describes the state of a given plan at a point in time plus the PlanId, ComponentName and ExecutionID the status is associated with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [([]PlanStatusWithID)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/motion@v0.15.1#PlanStatusWithID): `PlanStatusWithID` describes the state of a given plan at a point in time plus the `PlanId`, `ComponentName` and `ExecutionID` the status is associated with.
```

    ComponentName: s.req.ComponentName,
})
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### ListPlanStatuses

Returns the statuses of plans created by [`MoveOnGlobe`](/mobility/motion/#moveonglobe) calls that meet at least one of the following conditions since the motion service initialized:

- the plan's status is in progress
- the plan's status changed state within the last 24 hours

All repeated fields are in chronological order.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `onlyActivePlans` [(Optional\[bool\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): If `true`, the response will only return plans which are executing.
- `extra` [(Optional\[Dict\[str, Any\]\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
- `timeout` [(Optional\[float\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): An option to set how long to wait (in seconds) before calling a time-out and closing the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- [(ListPlanStatusesResponse)](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/services/motion/index.html#viam.services.motion.ListPlanStatusesResponse)

>   - [(plan_statuses_with_ids)](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/service/motion/index.html#viam.proto.service.motion.ListPlanStatusesResponse.plan_statuses_with_ids): List of plan statuses allong with associated `planId`, `componentName` and `executionID` that match the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - [(plan_statuses_with_ids)](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/service/motion/index.html#viam.proto.service.motion.ListPlanStatusesResponse.plan_statuses_with_ids): List of plan statuses along with associated `planId`, `componentName` and `executionID` that match the request.
```
